Hello, everyone. Welcome to a new episode of The
Dissenter. I'm your host, as always, Ricardo Lops, and
today I'm joined by Adam Chandler. He's a journalist
and author based in New York. And today we're
talking about his latest book, 99% Perspiration, A New
Working History of the American Way of Life. So
Adam, welcome to the show. It's a pleasure to
everyone.
Thank you so much for having me. I'm, I'm
really happy to be here.
So tell us first about the phrase that basically
is behind the title of your book. It comes
from Thomas Edison, if I got it right, it's
genius is 1% inspiration and 99% perspiration. So what
does that mean exactly? What does it imply and
particularly in the context of what you explore in
your book?
Right. Well, in, in American life, the idea that
hard work is something that will deliver anything you
need and everything you want in your life is
kind of a cherished article of faith. Working, working
hard is something that we are kind of instilled,
uh, that, that gets instilled in American life from,
from birth in a, in a way that separates
America from other countries. Uh, THE US in particular
puts a focus on hard work. As being the
sole determinant factor of whether you're going to succeed
in life, and the reality is that it's not
true. I mean, we're we're seeing it play out
in our politics and we're seeing it play out
in our culture. People are very angry because they're
working very hard and they're not getting, and I
thought it's an interesting way to look at American
culture and society. This, this unique focus on The
individual and the political idea around hard work really
tells the story of why there's so much animosity
and anger and historically why there's been so much
animosity and anger.
Right. And how would you define American meritocracy or
what Americans are taught about meritocracy in your country
and why do you say that it is, uh,
if I understood it correctly, unique compared to other
countries?
Well, we're really raised on this belief of individual
destiny. This, this thought, and it begins all the
way back at the founding of the country where
you're, you're born into this possibility. It's not like
The old Europe that America and the US specifically
was seeking to separate itself from by being a
country where you could do anything you wanted to
as long as you applied yourself. That is, that
is the meritocratic ideal that it was hoping to
embody in separating itself from from the British. And
you know it's a beautiful idea, don't get me
wrong, but it's never matched the reality of it,
and I think we all know that, you know,
it started. It started with a caste system. It
started with slavery, and it worked its way into
these modern iterations of discrimination and forces like Jim
Crow and economic exclusion. And so it's never really
been true, but we, we don't make any sort
of provisions or adjustments for the fact that it's
not true. We make, we make some a little
bit in policy, but We don't have a social
safety net here. We don't believe that people can
be. Sort of the victims of circumstance when the
economy is bad, when when when jobs get shipped
overseas or when communities fail because of bad policy
or bad governance and people don't have good paying
jobs, it's seen as their own fault that they
didn't find a way to make it work, and
that's just not the reality in countries that the
US likes to compare itself to, and it's the
source of a lot of anger and tension. AND
rage and outright rage, the kind of rage that
has delivered us into this very heated and acrimonious
political moment.
Yeah, and we're going to talk more about why
and how this idea is flawed later in our
conversation, but where do you think it comes from?
I mean, where does this particular idea of meritocracy
or American meritocracy stems from historically?
Sure, well, the idea begins, you could argue with
Columbus, even Columbus is not somebody who actually discovered
America, but In seeking out a new symbol for
the United States as it was seeking its independence,
it embraced this idea of the symbol of Columbus,
somebody who went out on his own and said,
you know, Basically, the rest of the world thought
he was crazy for trying to find another way
across to India from Europe. And he did it
anyway, and he forged his own path and he
found the new world. That is the Construction that
we use when we describe our history and in
doing so, he embodies a lot of these really
cherished ideals of rejecting conventional wisdom and striking out
on your own and being a self-guided individual in
pursuit of a dream. And that is something that,
you know, has led to this Columbus worship in
a way that, you know, is ahistorical because he
didn't discover. You know, America, there are people here,
more people in North America than in the Europe
that he left, and we forget that. But if
you look at the founding fathers, they all kind
of try to embody this story, even going back
to the settlers who came over on the Mayflower
who were trying to make it on their own.
All of these have these particular stories, these particular
motifs and themes of Rugged individualism and self-reliance. It's
about the individual effort to find a way to
make it work, to make your life succeed, to
reach your dreams, as opposed to the community and
all of the sort of supporting cast members that
make life actually possible. And that is something that
has been embedded in American culture ever since. And
you know, it defies logic, but it's powerful and
potent and it's seductive. And it's been the bedrock
of American life.
And how has this idea of meritocracy been woven
into the fabric of American society? I know that
in the book you talk about the role of
things like the government, the education system, and the
culture at large. So how has it become dominant
in your culture?
Well, it's dominant in your in the culture in
a sense that There is a lot of shame
and disgust around people who need help, who run
into problems, and these don't have to be, you
know, it doesn't have to be. Abject poverty. It
could be someone who's in college, studying to become
a doctor, who has to drop out to take
care of a family member and then ends up,
um, you know, struggling and needing public assistance. There's
a lot of shame around that idea that you
are not able to transcend your circumstances. And the
thought of self-reliance is something that goes back to
Jefferson and Benjamin Franklin and George Washington. All of
these iconic American figures are cast as these people
who managed to get it done on their own,
find their own way forward, and they're modern analogs
to that too. We, we, we worship the founder
who tinkered in their garage to come up with
a new idea and make it available to the
masses, and it's always one person. It's not a
team of people. It's not. Taxpayer dollars that create
the roads and the research and the the energy
to make these inventions possible, it's always that one
person. And so this focus on the individual shows
up in our policy. It shows up in our
culture, it shows up in our storytelling in ways
that really make the idea of community support and
policies that Create opportunity, um, less a check in
the, in, in the public's mind, you know, this
is why we're the only Western country, um, and
beyond the Western countries that don't have universal healthcare,
you know, you, you are very much on your
own here if you're not. Either paying in for
for really substandard healthcare in the in the public
marketplace, or you're tethered to a job, and that's
a really clear example of how important it is
in American culture to find a way to make
it on your own. And if, if you run
into trouble, you're out of luck.
Right. You've alluded there to an idea that is
really very interesting. So is achievement or success really
the pro the product of individuals or communities?
Well, in American life it's seen as, as individual
achievements. We, we, we hold up the individual. We,
we extol the individual in ways that um stand
out culturally and, and, and socially and politically. We
are, we are, we are meant to take um
pride in individual achievement and we hold up individuals
and not teams and not, not uh communities as
being responsible for it. Um, AND this is evident
in our politics, you know, we have a, we
have a system where We vote for individuals for
president. We don't vote for parties in the same
way that they do in European parliamentary systems where
you're voting for a party and there's a head
of a party. You're really voting for an individual,
you know. There are things that you, you don't
really think about because they're so normalized here in
terms of the way that the individual figure interacts.
And this again comes, comes back to the concept
of individual destiny and self-reliance and all of the
things that focus on one person making it. You
know, making their dream, whether it's arriving as an
immigrant or working long hours to find a way
to wealth from, from nothing, the rags to riches
mythos, and it's never really about the people along
the way who help create opportunities, whether it's through
smart, smart policy or good community ties, good schools,
mentorships, the things that people don't all have access
to. Um, I'm, you know, I'm, I'm a writer
and people often say, you know, congratulations on, on
making it into a world that's a difficult creative
field and you've written a few books and, you
know, you must have worked really hard to get
there, and I, you know, I do say yes,
I have, and I'm, but I had mentors. I
had opportunities. I was able to go to school.
I had communities around me supporting me. I had
people telling me, you know what, if you want
to be a writer, go for it, not. That's
a pretty crazy idea. Um, AND, and, and that's
not something that a lot of people get when
they are in pursuit of whatever it is they
want to pursue, you know, I, I, I try
to, I try to take that in stride when
I, when I, when I answer these kinds of
questions because I'm, I'm a product of something that
is not my own hard work. It is something
that community supported and sustained me, and I'm very
lucky to have, have had those, those opportunities and
I'm aware that not everybody else does, but Um,
you know, the more you talk to people, the
more that they really want to say this is
all because of one person and their individual effort,
and that's just a microcosm, an individual personal anecdote
of, of, of a broader whole.
Yeah, and you mentioned self-reliance there. I mean, is
it really possible for anyone to actually be self-reliant?
And I, I, I think that also connects at
least to some extent with the very American idea
of the self-made man. I mean, people being able
to self-make themselves. So, uh, I mean, but is
it really possible to do that?
Well, if you told somebody who has made it
that they had help, they get very upset. That
is, that is something to, to be, to diminish
your achievement, to say that because you had perhaps
a wife or a husband who supported you either
financially or took care of the family while you
were working late hours, that's one example of something
that would make someone feel diminished in their, in
their achievement, and that's just One small fragment of
a of a mosaic. Self-reliance is something that we,
we, we've always played into culturally. And again, this,
this goes back to the Puritans. This goes back
to the early founders, Benjamin Franklin types of people
who wanted, wanted Americans to be their own, the
masters of their own destiny, and it is a
romantic and quixotic idea, but it's undercut by the
reality that You can't do it on your own.
You need partners to trade with, you need communities
to sustain you, you need outlets to socialize, you
need help, you need mentorship, you need education, and
all of these things are underplayed because It interferes
with the idea that we are, we shouldn't be
governed, that we shouldn't have any, any external say
so in how we make it in this world.
So there is a political ideology and it's an
undercurrent in American life and an American rage that
He intentionally tries to neglect and sort of undermine
the thought that um we're in this collectively. And,
and that's a large reason why we're willing to
give people who make Far too much money to
begin with, even more tax cuts, um, which is
something that's currently under discussion in America right now,
but also historically has been a big, a big
feature of our political discourse and our political movements
in the last 20 or 30 years. And um
You know, it, it, it's, it's a, it's a
chaotic, it's a chaotic thing because it's hard to
argue with people who say, I did it and
so can you. Um, IT, it, it's It's anecdotal
to the point of being problematic, and it's a
real part of the experience here politically.
Uh, IN your book, you use a very interesting
expression, American abracadabra. What, what do you mean by
that?
Right. So, kind of related to what I was,
what we were talking about just now with the
idea of individual destiny. The American abracadabra is this,
is this concept that if you don't make it
here in America, in the land of opportunity, It's
because you didn't try hard enough. And it's this,
it's this idea, it's this mirage that if you
failed to achieve success, stability, happiness, it's, it's because
you didn't try and It places a lot of
guilt and shame on the individual for not achieving
what they should have achieved, when the reality is
that there are plenty of reasons why people don't
make it in America, and it's not for lack
of hard work. There are tens of millions of
people here who are living paycheck to paycheck in
the United States. 60% of Americans live paycheck to
paycheck. They're working hard. They're working long hours. People
who are on food assistance in this country, the
majority of them work. The majority of people who
receive benefits are are working people, and We don't
like to admit that because it, it undercuts the
idea and, and, and the core value of this
individual hardworking focus that is meant to deliver all
of our dreams. And so the American abracadabra is,
is sort of the, the phrase that I use
in the book to kind of describe the reality
of it. It's, it's a mirage to say, You
just should have worked harder and that's why you
didn't get where you're going. It didn't have anything
to do with bad policies or job markets, the
conditions that we create, bad trade deals, um. Creative
destruction of communities through economic change. Um, IT places
all of the community expectations and keeps them on
the individual's shoulders. And it's an important part of
the story because this is a lot of why
people are, um, turning out and turning away from
institutions and they're not believing in government anymore. They're
not believing in leadership and what their teachers and,
and, and, and institutions are telling them. AS a
result of this myth not being true.
Mhm. And how do you square ideas surrounding meritocracy
with the fact that there's growing economic inequality in
the US? Wages have been stagnant in the US
for the last few decades, and many Americans have
been working more or less. I mean, because unless
we assume that There's a growing number of individuals
or people that are just lazy or don't work
hard enough. This doesn't seem to be even a
very meritocratic system to me,
right? You've almost answered the question for me in
large part because those are, those are the excuses
that people will say it's because younger people don't
want to work hard anymore. It's something that I'm
a millennial, and I was, I, I remember reading
and hearing about all of the people who said,
Um, these millennials, they don't want to work anymore.
They don't want to try hard, they don't want
to do anything. And now I'm hearing those same
kind of accusations leveled at Gen Z. It, it,
it, it's cyclical every, every few years, it's the
next generation doesn't want to work hard anymore. And
the reality is that, first of all, Gen Z
in particular is aware that hard work isn't going
to pay off for them. They, they've seen how,
how, um, Americans have become 64% more productive in
the last 40 years, and their wages have only
increased 17%. You know, they, they may not know
the stats, but they know the reality of it.
They're living the reality of it. And so the
fact that we have so many wealthy people in
this country and yet more people are struggling is
something that is, is not eluding our grants. But
the dominant working theory is that it is People
who want to instill dependency and laziness by giving
more to communities, whether it's healthcare, whether it's childcare,
whether it is more funds for communities for people
to learn and take time to develop their careers,
these are all things that are seen as socialist
plots to make people dependent on the government and
lazy and It doesn't go away even if it's
not true, and this is a stronger motif that
we get, the more the more people become desperate
and hungry for answers that are different from the
conventional wisdom. And so it is this, it is
this concept that only reinforces that it's, it's lazy
people or people who wish to destroy American values
that are causing all of this distress economically and
socially in America.
And what happens when hard work isn't enough? What
kinds of effects does that have on people who
experience that psychologically?
Absolutely great question. Um, IN part because we really
are living through this. If you, if you told
people, you know, 15 or 20 years ago that
we would have, uh, you know, a, a, a
billionaire who's been divorced 3 times from New York
City be the president of the United States twice,
they would laugh at you because it, it, it,
it seems preposterous that someone who, um, you know,
inherited a lot of money and, you know, became
this lightning rod. Of of outsider sort of rage
would find a foothold in American life, and that
is, that is the, the upshot, that is the
result and the consequence of the fact that people
have been working hard for less and harder for
less, more hours, fewer vacation days, fewer time off
for leisure, less community orientation, less time for civic
groups, and Leisure time with family members and friends,
these are all having this cumulative effect where people
don't feel like they're catching up or even staying
afloat, and they're angry. They're angry at the elite
systems that have made this possible, and that's a
bipartisan failure, and they're angry at everyone who told
them that all you need to do is work
hard. And so, They're looking for people to blame,
and political opportunists have really stepped into the into
the foothold here and said, you know, it's not
because you're, you're not working hard enough, it's because
of immigration or it's because of socialism or teachers
who are teaching people the wrong things or Politicians
who want to support people by giving them Access
to healthcare or childcare or a higher minimum wage.
These are all handouts and entitlements. And so there's
a lot of distraction that allows people who feel
righteously angry about the fact that they're not keeping
up to direct their anger and animus at certain
targets. And it's been a very effective strategy in
American politics for generations.
Yeah, and it's not only that, but also this
is a conversation that I've had on the show
with a few economists about how rich people in
our modern capitalist societies and particularly it manifests very
well in American society, I guess, tend to build
their wealth because it's not very commonly through hard
work, or is it?
That's right. Well, if you look at the way
that we tax assets in the United States, your,
your people are taxed less on things in the
stock market that accrue wealth or the land that
they own, the properties that they develop, those are
taxed at a, at a lower rate than the
money you make working, actually working. And that is
a really important feature of our tax system because
that is the way that people really accrue wealth
here. A lot. Some of it is by working,
but a lot of it's through these other mechanisms
that create wealth, and we don't. We don't penalize
or we don't reap collective benefit from those things,
even though it's not just one person who's doing
this, um. You know, it's entire companies, it's entire
communities and systems, and that's just 11 fragment of
the picture that is so important to show because
we get angry at relief for poor people, but
we don't get upset about entitlements and giveaways to
rich people, whether it's tax cuts or corporate welfare
or all these other features of society. Um. You
know, I'm, I'm lucky to have a house that
I, that, that I own with my wife, and
we pay our interest on our mortgage every year,
and we can write that off on our taxes,
and that's not something that anyone is saying is
unfair, but it's a huge, it's it's a significant
amount of money that we're being given by the
government for being homeowners that if it were Institutionalized
in any other sort of format for people who
made less money than us, it would be seen
as some kind of socialist conspiracy, but we, we,
we, we don't look at it that way because
wealthy people are seen as deserving or people who
have made it or into a into a steady
middle class life or were born lucky to be
in those positions are seen as Deserving some and
the reality is that they're no more deserving and
tend not to work nearly as hard or battle
as many obstacles as people who are scrapping to
get by on a daily basis. And so that's,
you know, that's just a big, a big part
of the story too.
Right. And even if hard work plays a role
in becoming rich, is it even possible for anyone
to work hard enough to earn, I don't know,
10s of millions, 100s of millions, or even billions
of dollars and hundreds or thousands of times more
than the average worker? I mean, is that even
realistic to think about?
I think a lot about Jeff Bezos, who just
got married in Venice, you know, and took over
the city to have a very lavish wedding. He
is obviously one of the richest people on Earth,
and it's not because he's working that many times
harder than an Amazon factory worker who has, you
know, a GPS attached to him and a timer
so that people are monitoring his steps and movements
and making sure he's efficient enough or riding in
a van without air conditioning around to make deliveries.
It's not because Jeff Bezos is working harder or
working 24 hours a day. It's because he's not
paying his workers properly, and worker attrition is a
huge part of why Amazon could be even more
profitable if they treated their employees better. You know,
this is, this is the reality of it. We
don't, we don't want to concede that workers could
actually benefit from higher pay and a certain choosiness
in the marketplace because that would give them power.
And so instead we have a system where Amazon
loses billions of dollars every year because people work
there for two months and they quit because it's
too hard, it's too physically painful. And that's just
one example of people who are working so hard
that they can't even have a life, and so
they quit and they leave and they can't make
things work versus the person who is shutting down
the city of Venice to have a wedding because
he just has so much wealth and has nothing
to do with it but throw foam parties on
a yacht. It's just the split screen is astounding
to think about and to look at because it
just shows how false the reality of this is.
And when people harken back to the to the
better days of American life where there was a
little bit more even distribution of wealth, and this
is post-war America. They look at the idea that
American bosses and CEOs were making 20 or 30
times more than their employees versus thousands of times
more than their employees as a sign that, OK,
things are a little bit more in balance and
things make a little bit more sense, and that's
a big part of the story is that it
used to not be the case that people had
runaway wealth versus their workers and they interacted with
them, and it was, it was a company that
was Cohesive as opposed to driven by shareholder demands
and this insane financial chicanery that makes people so
wealth.
Right. Uh BY looking across the history of these
ideas you did in your book, do you think
that there's ever been a time in American history
where hard work actually paid off or do you
think that it got worse over the past few
decades in, since the late 70s, 80s with the
rise of neo-liberalism?
It's, it's a really important question in part because
people do look back on that era that I
was just talking about post-war, post-World War II American
life as this moment where things made sense to
people in terms of the finances. We, we, we,
we looked at the baby boom and the creation
of wealth and the rise of the middle class,
and unfortunately, you know, that wasn't true for everyone.
Um, A lot of people were left out of
that, and a lot of people have always been
left out of this wealth making, but even that,
even that period of time itself is kind of
a mirage because the US had this really unique
set of circumstances where almost all of its competitors
in Europe were had been decimated during the war,
so they had this huge head start on the
rest of the economies, um. They had access to
a young workforce that had been educated and they
had strong union power so that people who were
working could create terms of their compensation in their
lives that made a good life more possible than
it is today. And that slowly chipped away, particularly
in the 80s, and we saw the runaway wealth
and income inequality shoot up as a result of
that. So even though the 50s and 60s were
a mirage in that way, there were elements of
it where it was more possible to be socially
mobile. And even though it wasn't perfect, it was
closer to a better balance than it has been
throughout the history of American life. So I, I'd
like to point to that era in part because
it shows how unrealistic it was, um, the expectation
that it would go back to that because it
was such a, a, a momentary, um, unique. Sort
of period. But also the forces that made it
possible in some some respects are no longer with
us, strong union bound.
Right. Uh, I would like to ask you about
hustle culture. I mean, what do you think about
the rise of so-called hustle culture, particularly in the
2010s and now in the 2020s, which I think
is very interesting because it's sort of followed the
economic crisis from 2007, 2008. I don't know if
you think that it would have anything to do
with that, but nowadays, Uh, I mean, most people,
if they go on Instagram or other social media,
they are constantly inundated by these, uh, I mean,
shorts of people waking up at 3 a.m. or
4 a.m. to hustle all day, and I mean,
it just seems a bit ridiculous. So what, what
do you make of it?
Yeah, hustle culture is absolutely the result of Economic
precarity, a sense of social precarity, the, the, the
reality that um if you are going to succeed,
you really have to turn everything that you do
in this life into some kind of job. No
one really enjoys hobbies for leisure in the way
that they once did it. It's performative. It's part
of building a brand, it's part of monetizing everything.
And some of that has to do with the
culture that supports it, and some of that has
to do with the fact that it's necessary for
a lot of people. We're reaching a point in
America right now where more people have multiple jobs
than at any point in history in terms of
the modern labor force, um, sort of resembling what
one job used to cover in terms of the
basics of life versus everything else. And we're taking
our cues from our culture too. If you look
at a lot of our biggest celebrities, you know,
Years ago it would be seen as selling out
for a big Um, artists to endorse products or
to launch their own lines of tequila or whatever
it is that they're doing. And today, no. No
celebrity avoids this. Every celebrity has some kind of
endorsement, has some kind of product that they're also
selling in addition to the art that they create
on the side. And so there is this general
entrepreneurial spirit about being your own boss, but also
constantly working, constantly hustling, that is contagious and also
necessary. So in some ways it's ridiculous because we
we we we take our social cues from people
who are Hustling without any need to hustle other
than the fact that it shows that they are
working hard and they don't want to, they don't
want their wealth to be seen as something that
they're not working for. There's an insecurity among the
elites in that way. However, Then there are people
who are working really hard and hustling. Unglamorous jobs,
not for, for companies that they founded to appear
to be, um, you know, hardworking folks. They're actually
in the, in the, in the, in the mire
themselves just trying to get by. And it's one
of those, again, split screen differences between what we
see, you know, in the elite circles in American
life and what we see on the ground and
Hustle culture is kind of at the heart of
it. It's something that we, we, we've really whole,
whole hog embraced in a way that is kind
of terrifying to watch.
How would you characterize current work culture in the
US? What does it seem like?
Well, for, for me, um, you know, as an
observer of it and having in this book gone
around the country talking to people, it's a lot
of precarity, a lot of people who are, who
are nervous about what tomorrow brings, and that can
be artificial intelligence, and that could be a recession
or the labor market contracting. It can be tariffs
that might turn all of our trading partners against
us in terms of, you know, the US and
its relationships. Um, ALL of those kind of speak
to a broader nervousness that people have around what
their jobs will and will not be able to
provide them in a long-term setting, and that's on
top of what was already existing in terms of
income inequality, in terms of inflation, the cost of
living, the fact that essentials in this country have
gotten so much more expensive over the last 20
or 30 years, and So a lot of people
are, are, are, are staying, staying put in jobs
that they don't like that may not give them
the mobility that they that they want or they
need because they're nervous about what, what could or
could not happen if they, if they decided to
go out on their own or, or try to
find a new way. And so they're just taking
on more work and that's, that's really, I think
what is, you know, connected to the hustle culture
question you just asked is the reality that people
feel trapped. And are very nervous about things even
though you could say economic conditions right now look
good. Nobody feels good. The perception is that we're
standing on the brink of something, and they're not
wrong to feel that way. So there is, you
know, a lot of adjective here about that.
And what do you think that, what do you
think are the perceptions that people have in America
about hard work? Do you think that, uh, because
it is still, I guess, part of the hegemonic
culture, these ideas surrounding meritocracy and so on, that
most people still buy them, or do they not
because they are basically going through A period where
they're, they are working hard and not being able
to get by.
I, I think that um The idea of hard
work is now something that people kind of absorb
as a necessity, not because it's aspirational, but because
it is, it is the demand of the moment.
It is the demand of, of, of, of everything
right now. And um You know, there are younger
generations that aren't buying into the idea of hard
work as being something that will pay off, and
so there's a reluctance there. There are people who
don't want a job that is going to require
them to be. On their phones working at 11
o'clock at night, um, checking emails and being present.
And so they're, they're trying their best to buck
against the system and they're looking for alternative ways
to live and they're being sort of Criticized and,
and, and, and satirized by older generations for not
buying into the system, but around it is a
lot of ambition. I don't think that the younger
generations lack ambition, that their ambition looks like a
steady life where their needs are met and they're
not working a job that isn't going to give
them everything that they need, and they're not buying
into the old systems, but they want to do
things that are exciting and forward moving and progressive
for the world. Um, THEY'RE, they're just looking around
and seeing the modern state of things and saying,
why would I throw away my life working really
hard and not making enough when I could try
to strike out on my own and find my
own path forward. And so I think that that's
when we see things like the creator economy and
influencers influencers and This sort of low-level entrepreneurship that
other people in older generations don't understand, but um
is attractive to younger people who don't buy into
the idea that generations ago, you had 25 years
and a pension and a gold watch. This is
a real classic Midwestern American ideal, factory workers, and
those things are all gone. So, and people now
don't even have a memory of that. So they
can't even romanticize about getting that back.
Could you tell us about at least one example
of another country with a different kind of work
culture and where do you think that differences in
work culture between countries come from?
Sure. So in the book, I, I traveled to
France and, and, and part of what's interesting to
me about the French culture in terms of work.
IS, you know, we make fun of it here
in the United States because it is seen as
so luxurious and so devil may care in terms
of its seriousness about work versus life in terms
of what, what gives people satisfaction, what gives people
meaning. It is something that we constantly have always
made fun of the French for, but when you
drill down into the stats of it, Um, the
French workers are almost exactly as productive as American
workers. They're, they're separated by percentage points. And when
you look at what a French worker's day looks
like, you have an hour more of sleep, you
have an hour more of leisure. Those are two
important things. Um, AND then you have these aspects
of the French labor code. And again, France isn't
perfect by any stretch of the imagination, but just
looking at what the cultural norms are there. They've
written into their labor code, um, a lunch break,
a period in the middle of the day where
you get at least 1 hour, sometimes 2, to
have a meal. You're, you're supposed to leave your
office. Perhaps you, you meet up with colleagues and
have non-work related conversations. Sometimes you meet up with
friends, sometimes you go on dates. Um, YOU get
errands done, and you, you, you do, you do
things that you need to do to make your
life work so that you don't have to do
them in your off hours. That is something that's
embedded in French work culture that we don't really
pay attention to here, and we, you know, over
half of Americans eat their lunches at their desks.
It's, it's one of those things they've studied. Even
though these pauses, you know, in the middle of
the day, make French workers and workers in other
countries more productive, more creative, less burnt out, more
loyal to their companies. There's a real benefit to
those kinds of measures that we Don't pay attention
to because it, it actually would benefit us as,
as a, as a country that's obsessed with work,
to have our workers be more productive and creative
and loyal and to be less burnt out. They
take more days off in France by, by several
weeks. Um, IN terms of national holidays and just
culturally, there are weeks of time where you're not
supposed to work. Um, AND then they have laws
like the right to disconnect, which is essentially a
law that says If you are a company with
a certain number of workers, you have to work
out an arrangement between employees and management about whether
you can or should be available after work. It
creates an expectation that if you get a phone
call on a Sunday, you don't necessarily have to
respond to it right away or an email or
a text message or anything on any of Slack
or Teams or any of the myriad ways that
work has infiltrated us outside of our, our working
hours. You're not, you're not. At risk of losing
your job if you don't respond to something right
away, and those are important things because we now
live in our phones. And so if work is
on your phone, it's going to creep into every
aspect of your life, and the expectation is going
to be that you're going to continue working. So
that's an important part of the story too. And
and and France has all of these things and
a quality of life that is enviable in terms
of the amount of time off that people have
in terms of what people are able to do.
And so I really love pointing to that as
an example of Not that we should emulate or
necessarily become friends, but here are just some cultural
examples of things that have proven benefits, and French
people also live 5 years longer than American people.
And that's again a mind boggling statistic.
But do you think that uh it's the idea
that we should work hard itself that's bad, or
is it simply the sort of obsession that people
have with it in America particularly that is bad?
I, I love this question because it's so important,
especially, you know, uh, the more I talk about
this subject, I'm not against hard work. I, I,
I like working hard. I enjoy it. It, it
should pay off. If you're working as hard as
you are, it should, you should be able to
have a good life. You should be able to,
to make the basics of a life function if
you are working a job, any job with, you
know, the focus and vigor that is expected. Um,
AND With a reasonable expectation set by a working
culture that centers itself around people. I think that
that's really what it comes down to, that's so
important is, is not that hard work isn't necessary
or useful. It, it makes all these things that
are incredible in the world possible. It's that it
should benefit people to work hard. It shouldn't be
a necessity because they're going to go broke or
homeless or lose everything if they don't work hard.
Um, There has to be a better balance, and
it's, it's really critical that we find a way
to kind of, at least in American life, reestablish
a baseline that makes it possible for people to
be socially mobile, to be ambitious, because right now
people who are working hard are not getting ahead
and they're trapped in this endless cycle of, of
Of obstacle and and and disillusion and anger around
the fact that they're not getting it.
So we shouldn't tell people that they shouldn't work
hard, or should we?
Well, we should tell people that they should work
hard, but they should work hard for bosses and
for companies that respect them. We should, we should
put the onus less on talking to people about
the work that they do and more around the
work culture that needs to change to make People
more invested in it. People should feel like they
are actually cared for and, and that they're part
of a team and that they're part of a
system that, that means it well as opposed, means
them well as opposed to, you know, sees them
as disposable and, and with suspicion, you know, we,
we have all of these bizarre systems in place
where we're monitoring people's movements throughout the day, whether
you're working at a high-tech place like Google or
you're working at an Amazon factory. Um, IN a
warehouse, and the reality is that we should be
tracking people's time off and making sure they're taking
enough days off for themselves. We should have paid
time off. I used to bartend and one of
the things that I learned over the years of
working in restaurants and bartending was that we have
people who are choosing between paying their rent and
going to a restaurant when they're physically ill and
working. These are people who are preparing foods and
they're sick. And they couldn't stay home because they
don't have paid leave, and they have to make
their rent. And so the person preparing your food
will come to, come, come to come to the
job sick because they have no choice in the
matter. You know, that's just one example of something
that is absurd and costs everyone. There's a social
cost. There's, there, there's a public cost to all
of this sort of systemic disregard for basic human
decency. And that's, that's really what has to change.
That's really what kind of is at the core
of this moment in its need for change is
that we, we're not giving people an opportunity to
be as ambitious as they could be, to work
hard as they could work in a way that
will actually make a difference, and that is something
that I think really gives us another way to
look at what hard work could and should be
in this world.
OK, so one final question then. When do you
think about the future in the US, are you
hopeful about it, particularly when it comes to the
working culture?
Um, I'm not hopeful. Um, BUT I will say
that I spent, you know, for this book, I
traveled around the country and I went to communities
that put me in touch with people that are
Old, young, rural, urban, rich, poor, religious, secular, and
what I loved about that opportunity and hearing people
talk about their lives is the fact that when
you have a good conversation with somebody who has
a different political outlook than you, Eventually, you know,
it doesn't actually even take that long. You realize
how much you have in common. You realize what
people say when they want a good life, sounds
pretty similar to what you, what you say when
you want to have a good life. And We
are hopelessly divided over a lot of things right
now, but if there is a way that we
can break through, and again, in-person communication, um, the,
the restoring of, of the public space and third
spaces where people interact. I, I believe that it's,
it's possible for us to kind of see each
other again as real people as opposed to these
kind of siloed caricatures of each other that dominate
the way that we See each other and react
to each other and believe certain things about each
other. You know, I, I grew up in Texas
and I live in New York, and those are
two very different places in American life. Um, AND
I can tell you that there are people there
who would disagree with each other and people who
would love each other, and there are some that
are really annoying and dogmatic in each place. And
the reality is that you can bridge these gaps
and find common solutions. And so that's what makes
me hopeful. Um, In the short term, I think
there's going to be a lot more agony to
get there, but I, I do think that there
is a hunger there for change.
Great. So the book is again 99% Perspiration and
New Working History of the American Way of Life.
I'm leaving a link to it in the description
of the interview and Adam, just before we go,
where can people find you and your work on
the internet?
Thanks so much, Ricardo. Um, Adam Chandler.com is uh
where I, where I keep most of, most of
my, my new work and my books. Um, AND
I try to, I try to update it regularly
when I'm having events and when I'm doing excellent
podcasts like this. So, um, yeah, that's, that's an
easy way to find me and I love hearing
from people too. So, um, my email is on
there. Don't, don't hesitate to reach out.
Great, I'm leaving a link to it also in
the description, and thank you so much for taking
the time to come on the show. It's been
fun to talk with you.
Thanks so much. This was a great conversation. I
really appreciate it.
Hi guys, thank you for watching this interview until
the end. If you liked it, please share it,
leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by Enlights Learning and
Development done differently. Check their website at enlights.com and
also please consider supporting the show on Patreon or
PayPal. I would also like to give a huge
thank you to my main patrons and PayPal supporters,
Perergo Larsson, Jerry Muller, Frederick Sundo, Bernard Seyaz Olaf,
Alex, Adam Cassel, Matthew Whittingberrd, Arnaud Wolff, Tim Hollis,
Eric Elena, John Connors, Philip Forst Connolly. Then Dmitri
Robert Windegeru Inai Zu Mark Nevs, Colin Holbrookfield, Governor,
Michel Stormir, Samuel Andrea, Francis Forti Agnun, Svergoo, and
Hal Herzognon, Michel Jonathan Labrarith, John Yardston, and Samuel
Curric Hines, Mark Smith, John Ware, Tom Hammel, Sardusran,
David Sloan Wilson, Yasilla Dezaraujo Romain Roach, Diego Londono
Correa. Yannik Punteran Ruzmani, Charlotte Blis Nicole Barbaro, Adam
Hunt, Pavlostazevski, Alekbaka Madison, Gary G. Alman, Semov, Zal
Adrian Yei Poltontin, John Barboza, Julian Price, Edward Hall,
Edin Bronner, Douglas Fry, Franco Bartolati, Gabriel Pancortez or
Suliliski, Scott Zachary Fish, Tim Duffy, Sony Smith, and
Wiseman. Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Georg Jarno, Luke
Lovai, Georgios Theophannus, Chris Williamson, Peter Wolozin, David Williams,
Dio Costa, Anton Ericsson, Charles Murray, Alex Shaw, Marie
Martinez, Coralli Chevalier, Bangalore atheists, Larry D. Lee Jr.
Old Eringbon. Esterri, Michael Bailey, then Spurber, Robert Grassy,
Zigoren, Jeff McMahon, Jake Zul, Barnabas Raddix, Mark Kempel,
Thomas Dovner, Luke Neeson, Chris Story, Kimberly Johnson, Benjamin
Galbert, Jessica Nowicki, Linda Brendan, Nicholas Carlson, Ismael Bensleyman.
George Ekoriati, Valentine Steinmann, Per Crawley, Kate Van Goler,
Alexander Obert, Liam Dunaway, BR, Massoud Ali Mohammadi, Perpendicular,
Jannes Hetner, Ursula Guinov, Gregory Hastings, David Pinsov, Sean
Nelson, Mike Levin, and Jos Necht. A special thanks
to my producers Iar Webb, Jim Frank Lucas Stink,
Tom Vanneden, Bernardine Curtis Dixon, Benedict Mueller, Thomas Trumbull,
Catherine and Patrick Tobin, John Carlo Montenegro, Al Nick
Cortiz, and Nick Golden, and to my executive producers,
Matthew Lavender, Sergio Quadrian, Bogdan Kanis, and Rosie. Thank
you for all.